# Exploring-GCP-Healthcare-Capabilities

Machine learning and big data tools are altering the healthcare landscape and are expected to continue to do so as technology advances, as the benefits are immense and growing for both providers and patients. Understanding currently available tools is critical for providers to stay up to date and supply the most current technology to its patients. The requirements in healthcare are unique to the industry, and are rapidly evolving. A system must be able to handle healthcare specific data types, such as FHIR and DICOM, be HIPAA compliant, and safely de-identify patient data. Google Cloud’s new healthcare API meets these requirements and is currently being used by major hospitals nationwide. We present and demonstrate its capabilities with big query and machine learning tools, specifically Big Query ML and AutoML. We present the results of an exercise in which we generate synthetic patient data and train various machine learning algorithms using both BQML and AutoML, and compare the outcomes. The project is motivated by a Google Cloud platform podcast that will be used as the main source of information. It is supplemented by other internet resources including GCP’s GitHub with healthcare tutorials.   

Check out our presentation at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DryU0iJsDHo&feature=youtu.be and the rest of our work, including the code needed to reproduce our work, on the [main page](https://github.com/laura-cattaneo/Exploring-GCP-Healthcare-Capabilities).

_This project repository is created in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Big Data Analytics course offered by the Master of Science in Business Analytics program at the Carlson School of Management, University of Minnesota._
